I am Nelson Mandela, born in 1918 in Mvezo,
South Africa. I am nationalist and the first
Black president of South Africa. My negotiations
in the early 1990s with South African President,
Klerk helped end the country’s apartheid
system of racial segregation and ushered in
a peaceful transition to majority rule. Klerk
and I were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize
for Peace in 1993 for our efforts.
I was born as the son of Chief Henry Mandela
of the Madiba clan of the Tembu people. I
studied law at Witwatersrand University. In
1944 I joined the African National Congress
or ANC and became a leader of its Youth League.
I opposed the apartheid policies of the ruling
National Party.
I defiance against South Africa’s pass laws,
which required nonwhites to carry documents
authorizing their presence in areas that the
government deemed “restricted”. After
the 1960 massacre of unarmed Black South Africans
by police at Sharpeville and the subsequent
banning of the ANC, I abandoned my nonviolent
stance and began advocating acts of sabotage
against the South African regime. In 1962
I went to Algeria for training in guerrilla
warfare, returning to South Africa later that
year.
In 1963, I, with other men were tried for
violent conspiracy in the infamous Rivonia
Trial. There, I gave a speech that was published
globally titled as “I Am Prepared to Die”.
I was imprisoned until 1990 while retaining
wide support among South Africa’s Black
population. I led the negotiations with south
African president to end apartheid and bring
about a peaceful transition to nonracial democracy
in South Africa. In 1994, We won South Africa’s
first elections. I introduced housing, education,
and economic development initiatives designed
to improve living standards of the country’s
Black population.
I retired from active politics in 1999 but
maintained a strong international presence
as an advocate of peace. I later become global
symbol of conflict resolution and problem
solving. I died in 2013 at the age of 95 after
suffering from a prolonged respiratory infection.
A true leader must be ready to sacrifice all
for the freedom of their people. I hope all
your hearts are still fighting for peace and
justice around the world.